Add global Celeritas input definition (#1562)
celeritas-project/celeritas: doc/index.rst

high performance simulation of complex HEP detectors on GPU-accelerated
hardware.  Its immediate goal is to simulate electromagnetic (EM) physics for
HL-LHC detectors with no loss in fidelity, acting as a plugin to accelerate
existing Geant4 :cite:`geant4-2016` workflows by "offloading" selected particles to
Celeritas to transport on GPU.

.. [#celeritas_vers] This documentation is generated from Celeritas |release|.

Background
==========

.. note:: This background section is largely a quote of the Celeritas R&D
   report :cite:`celer-rd-2024`.

> The first investigation of using GPU to accelerate Geant4 computing was a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first investigation of using GPUs to accelerate Geant4 computing was a
```

CUDA-compatible library for navigation on Geant4 detector geometries.
:ref:`api_orange` is a work in progress for surface-based geometry navigation
that is "platform portable", i.e. able to run on GPUs from multiple vendors.

Celeritas wraps both geometry packages with a uniform interface for changing
and querying the geometry state.

.. _VecGeom: https://gitlab.cern.ch/VecGeom/VecGeom

Units
-----

The Celeritas default unit system is Gaussian CGS_, but it can be
:ref:`configured <configuration>` to use SI or CLHEP unit systems as well. A
compile-time metadata class allows simultaneous use of macroscopic-scale units
and atomic-scale values such as MeV. For more details, see the
:ref:`units_constants` section of the API documentation.

.. _CGS: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaussian_units

EM Physics
----------

Celeritas implements physics processes and models for transporting electron,
positron, and gamma particles. Initial support is being added for muon EM
physics.  Implementation details of these models and their corresponding Geant4
classes are documented in :ref:`api_em_physics`.

Optical Physics
---------------

> Optical physics are being added to Celeritas to support various high energy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optical physics is being added to Celeritas to support various astroparticle, high energy
```
